assets/site/0009-why-not.md, before:

# why not `<my-favorite-build-tool>`?

your build tool is probably great. keep using it if you love it.
the intent here it not to dump on anyone or any tool, but articulate feature gaps.

| tool       | DSL-less | static types | standalone | polyglot | incremental | debuggable | beautiful | dependency manager |
| ---------- | -------- | ------------ | ---------- | -------- | ----------- | ---------- | --------- | ------------------ |
| bazel      |          |              |            | ✓        | ✓           |            |           |                    |
| gradle     |          |              |            |          | ✓           |            | ✓         | ✓                  |
| gulp/grunt | ✓        |              |            |          |             | ✓          | ✓         |                    |
| make       |          |              | ✓          | ✓        | ✓           |            |           |                    |
| npm-scripts| ✓        |              |            |          |              |           |            | ✓                  |
| rad        | ✓        | ✓            |           | ✓        | ✓           | (soon!)          | ✓         |                    |

ant, scons, ninja, etc were omitted. haven't used 'em!

here are some genuine, not-trying-be-rude-opinions.

- bazel is complex. maybe you need that complexity. 🤷🏻‍♀️
- gradle is full of magic and is often hard to reason about _where_ behavior comes from.
- gulp/grunt have no make-style tasks, are generally node only, comparatively slow, & stringly typed in various places.
- make is great, but has a lame DSL and is coupled to a poor scripting language
- npm-scripts are simple, but suffer releated drawbacks to gulp/grunt.

loose typing, unneeded/obsolete DSLs, lack of great static analysis, and _other_ gaps
leave room for improvement in this space.

Commit message:

feat: deno 1.3.x compat
BREAKING CHANGE: 1.+ compat. prior releases were pre 1.x

assets/site/0009-why-not.md, after:

# why not `<my-favorite-build-tool>`?

your build tool is probably great. keep using it if you love it.
the intent here it not to dump on anyone or any tool, but articulate feature gaps.

| tool         | DSL-less | static types | standalone | polyglot | incremental | debug-able | beautiful | dependency manager |
| ------------ | -------- | ------------ | ---------- | -------- | ----------- | ---------- | --------- | ------------------ |
| bazel        |          |              |            | ✓        | ✓           |            |           |                    |
| denox        |          |              |            |          |             |            |           |                    |
| gradle       |          |              |            |          | ✓           |            | ✓         | ✓                  |
| gulp/grunt   | ✓        |              |            |          |             | ✓          | ✓         |                    |
| make         |          |              | ✓          | ✓        | ✓           |            |           |                    |
| npm-scripts  | ✓        |              |            |          |             |            |           | ✓                  |
| **rad**      | ✓        | ✓            |            | ✓        | ✓           | (soon!)    | ✓         |                    |
| velociraptor |          | partial      |            |          |             |            |           | partial            |

ant, scons, ninja, etc were omitted. haven't used 'em! other builders, such as
cargo, dune, nx, and friends were omitted, as they are not generally considered
general purpose. npm-scripts & the Deno tools are not general purpose either,
but included merely by proximity of underlying tech stacks used.

Here are some genuine, not-trying-be-rude-opinions.

- `bazel` is complex. maybe you need that complexity. 🤷🏻‍♀️
- `gradle` is full of magic and is often hard to reason about _where_ behavior comes from. Once kotlin integration is first class, it's worth revisiting gradle.
- `gulp`/`grunt` have no make-style tasks, are generally node only, comparatively slow, & stringly typed in various places.
- `make` is great, but has a lame DSL and is coupled to a poor scripting language
- `npm-scripts`/`velociraptor` are simple, but suffer related drawbacks to gulp, grunt, and make.

Loose typing, unneeded DSLs, lack of great static analysis, and _other_ gaps
leave room for improvement in this space. `rad` is the first tool to bring a
subjectively _powerful_ scripting language into the build system space coupled with great
static analysis and make-capable performance.
